# Generative_Adversarial_Network

The project focuses on the problem of automatically generating new creative floor plans for residential buildings. With growing demand for creative floor plans and increasing cost factors for single design day by day, the most efficient method to solve the problem is by using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). The concept of introducing GANs in the field of Architecture is relatively new and as exciting as it sounds. The key idea is to design new floor plans automatically by the machine which would be extremely helpful for the architects. The whole idea does not include any manual work and the designs are created entirely on its own. For this purpose, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are used. The plan is to train the DCGAN model with a real-time dataset consisting of large amounts of floor plans and by the time the generator becomes more profound, it will be able to generate floor plan images which would be new and realistic. The uniqueness associated with our approach is that a floor plan design is created without any explicit external constraints from the architects. This would lead to an automatic creation of designs that are completely new to the architects and would be highly useful for the architects to easily create innovative designs for homes.

The dataset utilized for this study is a comprehensive and highly labeled dataset of over 300 residential floor plan images and 302 school urban plan images. The dataset is annotated by experienced architectural professionals. The entire dataset is color-coded into 12 blocks each representing individual areas that constitute a floor plan. For instance, green, dark blue, dark green, light blue, brown, yellow, pink, red, black represents bedrooms, living rooms, doors, dining area, windows, kitchen, bathrooms, negative spaces and balcony respectively.  The original samples were obtained from Lianjia and filtered by professionals. The filtered samples were scaled to 1: 100 and placed on 20cm×20cm pure white background images. For layout parsing, different RGB color blocks to denote different regions for boundary labels and layout labels were used. For the scope of this study only the 300 residential floor plans were considered with color encoding.

